The sun lay upon the orchard a weight of white and the air moved with a dry hissing among the leaves of the dying trees and the brothers walked the furrows and the dust rose up around their boots in clouds that hung heavy and gray in the stillness and the heat pressed against the back of the neck and the skin felt tight and the sweat ran in the creases of the spine and the eyes squinted against the glare and the world was reduced to the white of the sky and the gray of the earth and the black of the shadows under the trunks and the sound of their breathing and the crunch of the dry soil and the distant murmur of the canal that ran the perimeter like a vein of silver in the landscape and the man carried the tool roll on his shoulder and the younger brother carried the water can and the handle bit into his palm and the water sloshed against the metal and the boy stopped and set the can down and wiped his face with the back of his wrist and left a smear of grease and dust and he looked at the row of almond trees and the trunks were twisted like iron bars and the bark had peeled away in long gray strips to reveal the white wood beneath and the branches were bare and the bark of the limbs was peeling in curls and the ground beneath was cracked and the fissures were deep and wide and the earth had shrunk away from the base of the trees and the boy shook his head and the motion was sharp and final and he turned to the man and his face was lean and his eyes were dark and hollow and the wind stirred the hair on his forehead and the hair was black and straight and he spoke and his voice was flat and uninflected. They sold the north forty yesterday. The man did not turn his head. He kept walking and his boots crunched on the stone and the tool roll thumped against his hip. I heard. They came to the house last night and they signed and they took the keys and they looked at the man and the man looked at them and he said nothing and the woman wept and the man who bought the land held the papers and he smiled and he shook the man's hand and the grip was firm and the hand was soft and the man pulled away and he walked out of the room and he went to the shed and he took the axe and he took the shovel and he stood there in the dark and he looked at the tools and he knew he would never use them again. You should of said no. The man stopped and he leaned on the handle of the shovel and he looked out across the valley where the dust motes swirled in the shimmer and the outlines of the distant mountains wavered in the heat and the air was blue and white and the light was blinding and he spoke and his voice was low and rasping and the words were heavy. No man says no to the river when it rises and it takes what it wills and the river is the water and the water is gone and the earth is the truth and the truth is hard and the man who says no to the truth is a fool and a fool is a dead man walking and the dead man walking is worse than the dead man lying. The boy picked up the can and the water sloshed and the sound was hollow and he walked on and he followed the man and the trees were thinning and the ground was bleached and the color of ash and the man stopped at the headgate and the wheel was rusted and the iron was pitted and the man put his hand on the wheel and the heat of the metal seared the palm and he gripped it and he turned it and the wheel groaned and the metal shrieked and the sound was a jarring note in the silence and the water surged from the canal and plunged down the flume and the water was brown and thick with sediment and the sound was a roar that vibrated in the chest and the spray rose up and fell back and the water was caught in the siphon and carried away into the earth and the man listened and his face was tight and the muscles in his jaw worked and the tendons stood out on his neck and he nodded and his beard was gray and the whiskers were stiff and he spoke. It holds. For now. How long? Until the next breach. Or the leak. Or the sun. The sun is a hammer. The sun is a judge. They moved down the line and the heat rose like a wall and the shadows retreated under the trunks and the leaves of the trees were curled and gray and the air smelled of dry rot and the dust of pulverized bone and the man knelt and he put his ear to the pipe and the pipe was iron cold despite the heat and the boy knelt and he put his hand on the pipe and the vibration was a hum and the water was moving and the man stood and he looked along the line and the pipe ran away into the distance and the light played on the metal and the pipe was a line of silver in the brown earth and the man walked on and the boy followed and the man stopped and he pointed and his finger was long and the nail was black and the skin was rough and the finger was bony and he spoke. There. The boy walked to where the man pointed and he looked and the earth was dark and wet and the pipe was severed and the water was spraying out in a fine mist and hissing into the dust and the sound was a sibilant whisper and the spray caught the light and glittered and fell and the boy put his hand over the spray and the water was cold and his fingers were white with the force and the water soaked his sleeve and the skin was wet and cold and he looked at the man and the man was already coming and he had the patch and the clamp and the wrench and the bolts and the bag and the man knelt and he put the patch in place and the metal was rough and pitted and the boy held the clamp and the man tightened the bolts and the wrench bit down and the metal groaned and the strain was in the man's arm and the tendons stood out and the man grunted and the boy held and the pipe was old and the threads were worn and the man turned the wrench and the nut gave and the clamp squeezed and the water stopped spraying and the hiss faded to a drip and the drip faded to a silence and the man sat back on his heels and he wiped his face and the mud crust cracked on his skin and he looked at the boy and his eyes were dark and deep and the light caught the rim of gray in his beard and he spoke. The pipe is rusted through here. The pipe is old. Everything is old. You got the clamp. I got the clamp. We need more clamps. We got three in the truck. We got three in the shed. We got three in the world. The man stood and he was tall and thin and his bones showed through the skin and his shirt was gray and stained and the collar was open and the neck was corded and he looked up at the sky and the sky was a blinding white and the sun was a white eye and he squinted and the boy lay on his back and the sky was a blinding white and the sun was a white eye and he stared up and the heat pressed against his eyelids and the blood hummed in his ears and the dust settled on his chest and he closed his eyes and he saw the dark and the cool and the water and the green and the trees and the father and the mother and the house and the sound of the river and the sound of the rain and the sound of the silence and he opened his eyes and the man was walking away and the boy sat up and the boy brushed the dirt from his knees and the pants were stiff with the drying mud and the boy stood and the boy walked after the man and the boy spoke and the voice was thin and reedy. We should of replaced the line. We should of done it years ago. We did it. And now we do it again. The cycle. The wheel. The wheel turns and the trees die and the earth cracks and the man sweats and the water goes. The man turned and his face was grim and the features were sharp and the nose was long and the mouth was a line and the chin was heavy and the ears were low and the head was bald and the scalp was pink and the hair was gone and the man walked on and the boy followed and the man spoke and the voice was hard and the words were stones. You talk of the wheel. The wheel is a lie. The wheel is the lie we tell ourselves to keep walking. There is no wheel. There is only the line and the end and the end is near and the end is the dust. The boy stopped and the boy looked at the man and the boy looked at the trees and the boy looked at the sky and the boy spoke and the voice was a whisper. They offered a price per acre. The man stopped and the man turned and the man looked at the boy and the man's eyes were like flint and the man's face was a mask and the man spoke and the voice was low and the words were heavy. Price means nothing. Price is a number. The land is not a number. The land is a thing. The land is a presence. The land is the witness. The land remembers everything. The land holds the repository of our failures and our hopes and our sins and our virtues and the land will give it all back to the dust. You want to sell the land. I want to save the man. The man is the land. The land is the man. You split them and you kill both. You are a fool. You are a proud fool. The man spat into the trench and the dust drank the moisture instantly and the man walked on and the boy followed and the man walked along the row of trees and the shadows were long and the trunks were black and the branches were jagged and the sky was blue and the wind was cold and the wind was dry and the wind was dead and the man stopped and the man leaned on the shovel and the man spoke and the voice was a rasp. You want to go live in the city. You want to pay rent. You want to sleep in a box. You want to eat food that tastes of nothing. You want to walk on pavement. You want to hear the engines. You want to be a ghost. The boy shook his head and the boy looked at the man and the boy's eyes were red and the boy's face was wet and the boy spoke and the voice was broken. I dont want to go live in a box. I dont want to stay here and die. You die anyway. You die here or you die there. The earth takes you. The dust takes you. The silence takes you. You fight and you fight and you fight and you fight and you lose. That is the protocol. That is the rule. That is the law. The law is written in the stone and the blood and the bone. The acts will accommodate history with or without their understanding. Words are things. The words he is in possession of he cannot be deprived of. Their authority transcends his ignorance of their meaning. The boy looked at the man and the man's face was a riddle and the man's eyes were a void and the man spoke and the voice was a whisper. Sell the land. Sell the trees. Sell the dirt. Leave me the house. The house is a debt. The house is a roof over a hole. The house is a ghost. The man walked to the edge of the trench and the man looked down into the dark slit that cut the earth and the man's face was drawn and the man's hands were rough and the man spoke and the voice was a groan. There is a witness in this. A witness to the waste. And a witness to the work. The witness is the earth. The earth remembers everything. It holds the repository of all our failures and all our hopes. And it will give it all back to the dust. We dont need to remember. We just need to do. Do what? Fix the pipe. Keep the trees alive for one more year. And then what? And then we sell. And then what? And then I go to the mountains and I live alone and I dont talk to nobody. You dont know how to live alone. You've spent your life talking to the trees. I talk to the trees. The trees answer back. You dont think the trees have a voice? I think the trees have a silence that is louder than any voice. The boy looked at his brother and the face was tight and the jaw was set and the eyes were dark and the wind blew the dust across the face and the face did not move and the boy spoke and the voice was a whisper. We could sell and go together. Not you. I wont follow you. I wont lead you. We walk our own trails. The elder turned his back and the elder walked along the row of trees and the elder was a figure in the light and the elder was a shadow in the dark and the elder walked on and the boy watched him go and the figure grew smaller in the distance until the figure was just a speck against the darkening trunks and then the figure was gone and the boy stood there and the boy looked at the trench and the boy looked at the pipe and the boy looked at the sky and the boy felt the weight of the sun and the weight of the earth and the weight of the silence and the boy turned and the boy walked to the truck and the boy climbed in and the boy turned the key and the boy coughed the engine and the boy turned the key and the engine caught and the boy drove out of the orchard and the dust rose up behind the truck and the dust settled and the tracks were erased and the ground was whole and the boy drove along the road and the boy looked back and the orchard was a gray smudge in the heat and the boy looked forward and the road was white and the boy drove and the boy drove and the boy drove. The sun dipped toward the ridge and the light turned the color of blood and the shadows lengthened and the trees were black silhouettes against the burning sky and the wind picked up and the dust devils spun in the swales and the rattlesnakes sought the cover of the rocks and the lizards scuttled across the hot stone and the air was thick with the scent of sage and creosote and the distant roar of the freeway and the cry of the hawk and the man stood by the pump and the water was running and the sound of the water was a soft murmur like a distant voice and the man lit a lamp and the flame flickered and the flame threw long shadows against the shed wall and the oil can sat on the bench like a small dark animal and the man sat on the bench and the man's face was a mask and the man's hands were in his lap and the man's eyes were on the lamp and the man spoke and the voice was a whisper. Goodbye, Eli. Goodbye, Clem. The boy was in the cab and the boy's face was in the window and the boy's eyes were wet and the boy spoke and the voice was a whisper. See you at the house. See you at the house. The boy turned away and the boy drove away and the boy left the man and the man sat there and the man watched the lamp and the man listened to the water and the man listened to the wind and the man listened to the silence and the man felt the cold and the man felt the dark and the man felt the end and the man closed his eyes and the man slept and the man dreamed and the man saw the water and the man saw the green and the man saw the trees and the man saw the father and the man saw the mother and the man saw the house and the man saw the light and the man saw the dark and the man saw the dust and the man saw the end and the man woke and the man stood and the man walked out of the shed and the man walked to the truck and the man walked to the line and the man walked to the pipe and the man knelt and the man put his ear to the pipe and the man heard the water and the man heard the life and the man heard the death and the man stood and the man looked at the sky and the man looked at the stars and the man looked at the moon and the man looked at the earth and the man spoke and the voice was a whisper. It holds. It holds. The man walked away and the man went home and the man slept and the man woke and the sun rose and the man went to the orchard and the man walked the furrows and the man worked the land and the man fought the earth and the earth fought back and the man lost and the man won and the man lost and the man won and the man died and the man lived and the man was gone and the man was here and the land was whole and the land was broken and the land was dust and the land was life and the land was death and the land was silent and the land was loud and the land waited and the land watched and the land knew and the land forgot and the land remembered and the land was and the land is and the land will be and the words are things and the words are wind and the words are dust and the words are gone and the words remain and the words are written in the stone and the words are written in the blood and the words are written in the bone and the words are written in the water and the words are written in the fire and the words are written in the dark and the words are written in the light and the words are written in the silence and the words are written in the sound and the words are written in the breath and the words are written in the heart and the words are written in the soul and the words are written in the earth and the words are written in the sky and the words are written in the stars and the words are written in the moon and the words are written in the sun and the words are written in the wind and the words are written in the rain and the words are written in the snow and the words are written in the fire and the words are written in the water and the words are written in the dust and the words are written in the blood and the words are written in the bone and the words are written in the flesh and the words are written in the spirit and the words are written in the ghost and the words are written in the dream and the words are written in the sleep and the words are written in the waking and the words are written in the life and the words are written in the death and the words are written in the beginning and the words are written in the end and the words are written in the middle and the words are written in the now and the words are written in the always and the words are written in the never and the words are written in the yes and the words are written in the no and the words are written in the maybe and the words are written in the perhaps and the words are written in the might and the words are written in the must and the words are written in the shall and the words are written in the will and the words are written in the can and the words are written in the could and the words are written in the would and the words are written in the should and the words are written in the ought and the words are written in the need and the words are written in the want and the words are written in the desire and the words are written in the wish and the words are written in the hope and the words are written in the fear and the words are written in the love and the words are written in the hate and the words are written in the joy and the words are written in the sorrow and the words are written in the anger and the words are written in the peace and the words are written in the war and the words are written in the silence and the words are written in the sound and the words are written in the noise and the words are written in the quiet and the words are written in the storm and the words are written in the calm and the words are written in the dark and the words are written in the light and the words are written in the day and the words are written in the night and the words are written in the morning and the words are written in the evening and the words are written in the noon and the words are written in the midnight and the words are written in the dawn and the words are written in the dusk and the words are written in the twilight and the words are written in the midnight and the words are written in the noon and the words are written in the end and the words are written in the beginning and the words are written in the middle and the words are written in the now and the words are written in the always and the words are written in the never and the words are written in the yes and the words are written in the no and the words are written in the maybe and the words are written in the perhaps and the words are written in the might and the words are written in the must and the words are written in the shall and the words are written in the will and the words are written in the can and the words are written in the could and the words are written in the would and the words are written in the should and the words are written in the ought and the words are written in the need and the words are written in the want and the words are written in the desire and the words are written in the wish and the words are written in the hope and the words are written in the fear and the words are written in the love and the words are written in the hate and the words are written in the joy and the words are written in the sorrow and the words are written in the anger and the words are written in the peace and the words are written in the war and the words are written in the silence. The man walked on and the man worked and the man died and the man lived and the land remained and the land waited and the land watched and the land knew and the land forgot and the land remembered and the land was.